.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii serviceAccessConfig.1
.TH serviceAccessConfig.1
.SH NAME
serviceAccessConfig \- Automatically generate access control entries
for supported services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B serviceAccessConfig [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Automatically generate access control configuration entries for supported
services. Supported services are
.I Apache
.I HAProxy.
The process is configured via
.I /etc/serviceaccess/srvAccess.cfg
and generates the access control directives based on data extracted from
a file configured with the
.I ipdata
option in the configuration file. The configuration file is in INI format
as shown in the example below.
.TP 
.I Reference config
[accessservice]

logFile = /var/log/serviceAccess/srvAccess.log

ipdata = FILE_TO_MONITOR_IN_REGION_SRV_FORMAT

[service_name (MUST MATCH A PLUGIN_NAME)]

request = URL_TO_MAKE_REQUEST_AFTER_SERVICE_RESTART

serviceConfig = CONFIG_FILE_TO_MODIFY

serviceName = THE_NAME_OF_THE_SERVICE_FOR_RESTART

updateInterval = UPDATE_INTERVAL_IN_MINUTES
.SS accessservice
The
.I accessservice
section specifies the path of the logfile to which messages should be written
with the
.I logFile
option. The
.I ipdata
option provides the location of the file that is used to collect the IP data
to be used for the access control. The file providing the
.I ipdata
is also in INI format and every section in the file is expected to have a
.I public-ips
option. All entries are collected and used to generate the access control
entry for the configured services.
.SS service_name
As many sections as desired may be specified. The
.I service_name
must match one of the plugins implementing the configuration of the access
control for the particular service. The source file specified with the
.I ipdata
option is checked based on the configured
.I updateInterval
and if changes are detected the file configured with the
.I serviceConfig
option is modified and the service specified with the
.I serviceName
option is restarted. If the
.I serviceName
option is not specified the service name is assumed to be the same as the
section name. If the
.I request
option is specified the given URL will be used to issue a request.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--config"
Specify the configuration file to use. The default configuration file is
.I /etc/serviceaccess/srvAccess.cfg
.IP "-h --help"
Show the usage message
.IP "--ipdata"
Specify the source file for the IP data to be collected to generate the
access control for the configured service. This overrides the configuration
provided with the
.I ipdata
option in the configuration file.
.IP "--log"
Specify the log file to which information should be written. The option
overrides the information provided in the configuration file.
.IP "--version"
Show the program version
.SH EXAMPLE
serviceAccessConfig
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Schweikert (rjschwei@suse.com)
