.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ec2publishimg.1
.\"
.TH ec2publishimg.1
.SH NAME
ec2publishimg \- Modify the visibility permissions for an AMI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ec2publishimg [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ec2publishimg
Set the visibility of an AMI to allow others to use the image or to make the
image private, i.e. only available to the account owner.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a --account ACCOUNT_NAME"
Specifies the account to use to connect to EC2. The account is specified
in the config file
.IR ~/.ec2utils.conf .
The account is specified as a section with [account-ACCOUNT_NAME] delimiter.
The options of the sections are
.I access_key_id
.I secret_access_key
.I ssh_key_name
.I ssh_private_key
this allows the program to connect to EC2.
.IP "--access-id AWS_ACCESS_KEY"
Specifies the AWS access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I access_key_id
in the configuration file.
.IP "-n --dry-run"
The program will not perform any action. It will provide information on
.I stdout
about the actions it would perform.
.IP "-f --file CONFIG_FILE"
Specifies the configuration file to use. The default is
.IR ~/.ec2utils.conf .
.IP "--image-id AMI_ID"
Specify the AMI ID of the image to be marked as deprecated. This option is
mutually exclusive with the
.IR --image-name ,
.IR --image-name-frag ,
and
.IR --image-name-match .
.IP "--image-name IMAGE_NAME"
Specify the name of the image to be deprecated. The program will look for
an exact match of the name. This option is mutually exclusive with the
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-frag ,
and
.I --image-name-match
options.
.IP "--image-name-frag IMAGE_NAME_FRAGMENT"
Specify a section of an image name for the image(s) to be deprecated. Every
image that matches the name fragment will be marked as deprecated. This
option is mutually exclusive with the
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-name ,
and
.I --image-name-match
options.
.IP "--image-name-match REGEX"
Specify a regular expression to match an image name. Every image matching the
regular expression will be deprecated. This option is mutually
exclusive with the
.IR --image-id ,
.IR --image-name-name ,
and
.I --image-name-frag
options.
.IP "-r --regions EC2_REGIONS"
A comma separated list of Amazon EC2 regions, or a single region. If no
region argument is specified all EC2 connected regions will be processed.
EC2 disconnected regions have different API keys and thus the specified
.I account
would not work with the disconnected regions. If a disconnected region is to
be processed specify the region explicitly on the command line, and only the
region of interest along with the matching
.IR account .
.IP "-s --secret-key AWS_SECRET_KEY"
Specifies the AWS secret access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I secret_access_key
in the configuration file.
.IP "--share-with SHARE"
Specify the scope of the image publishing/sharing. The option supports the
keyword
.I all
to set the image to public, the keyword
.I none
to set the image private, or expects an AWS account number to share the image
with a specific account.
.SH EAMPLE
ec2deprecateimg --account example --image-name-match production-v2 --share-with all

Will set all images in all connected regions that match the 
.I production-v2
regular expression as public.
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Schweikert (rjschwei@suse.com)
