.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ec2uploadimg.1
.\"
.TH ec2uploadimg.1
.SH NAME
ec2uploadimg \- Upload a compressed raw image file to Amazon EC2 and create
a snapshot or an AMI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ec2uploadimg [option] PATH_TO_FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ec2uploadimg
Upload a compressed raw image to Amazon EC2 using an existing EC2 AMI
and create a snapshot or register a new AMI from the image. The apparent
size of the raw image must be 10 GB or less. It is expected that the
raw image has 1 partition, i.e. the root partition is
.I /dev/sda1.
The process of creating the image is as follows:
- start an instance
- create a storage volume and attach it to the running instance
- create volume that will be the new root and attach it to the running instance
- upload the image
- unpack the image and dump it to the new root volume
- detach the new root volume and create a snapshot
- register a new AMI
- clean up
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a --account ACCOUNT_NAME"
Specifies the account to use to connect to EC2. The account is specified
in the config file
.I ~/.ec2utils.conf.
The account is specified as a section with [account-ACCOUNT_NAME] delimiter.
The options of the sections are
.I access_key_id
.I secret_access_key
.I ssh_key_name
.I ssh_private_key
this allows the program to connect to EC2.
.IP "--access-id AWS_ACCESS_KEY"
Specifies the AWS access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I access_key_id
in the configuration file.
.IP "-B --backing-store EC2_BACKING_STORE"
Specifies the backing store type for the AMI to be created. The uploaded
image is an EBS (Elastic Block Store) image and my be registered as using
.I SSD
or
.I Magnetic
media as the backing store when being launched. Possible values are
.I ssd,
.I mag,
or
.I ssd,mag.
.IP "--boot-kernel AWS_AKI_ID"
Specifies the
.I aki_id
of the boot kernel that should be used when registering a Para-virtual
image. This option overrides the
.I aki_i386,
.I aki_x86_64,
or
.I g2_aki_x86_64
value in the configuration file.
.IP "-d --description IMAGE_DESCRIPTION"
Specifies a description for the image. The description will also be used for
the snapshot.
.IP "-e --ec2-ami AWS_AMI_ID"
Specify the AMI ID of the image to launch that will be used to perform
the upload operation. This value overrides the value given with the
.I ami
option for a given region in the configuration file.
.IP "-f --file CONFIG_FILE"
Specifies the configuration file to use. The default is
.I ~/.ec2utils.conf
.IP "--grub2"
Specifies if the image being uploaded and registered as AMI uses the
.I GRUB2
bootloader. In some cases
.I GRUB2
is referred to as
.I GRUB
and the first incarnation of GRUB is referred to as
.I GRUB-Legacy.
Setting this switch will select the
.I g2_aki_x86_64
value from the configuration file or will use the value given with
.I --boot-kernel
as the aki ID when a para virtual image is being registered.
.IP "-m --machine ARCH"
Specifies the architecture for the VM to be created. Supported values
are
.I i386
or
.I x86_64
.IP "-n --name IMAGE_NAME"
Specifies the name of the AMI to be registered.
.IP "-p --private-key-file PRIVATE_KEY"
Specifies the path to the private ssh key file to use to connect with the
instance that is being used to upload the raw image. This option overrides
the value of the
.I ssh_private_key
in the configuration file.
.IP "-r --regions EC2_REGIONS"
A comma separated list of Amazon EC2 regions, or a single region.
.IP "--ssh-key-pair AWS_KEY_PAIR_NAME"
Specifies the key-pair name to use when launching the instance that is used
to upload the raw image. The specified private key file must correlate
to the key pair name given with this argument. This value overrides the
value given for the
.I account
with the
.I ssh_key_name
in the configuration file.
.IP "-s --secret-key AWS_SECRET_KEY"
Specifies the AWS secret access key and overrides the value given for the
.I account
with the
.I secret_access_key
in the configuration file.
.IP "--snaponly"
When this argument is set only a snapshot of the uploaded image will be
created. The snapshot may then be used in a separate operation to register
an AMI.
.IP "--sriov-support"
Enable SRIOV support for HVM images. This implies that the appropriate
driver has to be included in the image.
.IP "-T --timeout WAIT_TIME"
Specifies the amount of tie to wait in seconds for operations in Amazon EC2
to complete before aborting the attempt to upload the image.
.IP "-t --type AWS_UPLOAD_INST_TYPE"
Specifies the instance type to launch for the instance being used to upload
the image. This value overrides the value given with the
.I instance_type
option for a given region in the configuration file.
.IP "-u --user AWS_INSTANCE_USER"
Specifies the user to use to connect to the instance being used to upload
the image. This value overrides the value given with the
.I user
option for a given region in the configuration file.
.IP "--use-root-swap"
Create the bew image using the root swap method. The helper instance used
to upload the image will be stopped and the created image volume will be
attached to the helper instance. A new image is registered from the
helper instance. This method of image creation is useful when meta data
associated with the image used to launch the helper instance needs to
be transferred to the new image.
.IP "-V --virt-type AWS_VIRT_TYPE"
Specifies the virtualization type to use for the image to be registered.
.SH EXAMPLE
ec2uploadimg --account example -d "My first image" -m x86_64 -n my_linux_image -r us-east-1 PATH_TO_COMPRESSED_FILE

Will upload the raw disk image contained in the PATH_TO_COMPRESSED_FILE and
will register a new AMI from the image.
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Schweikert (rjschwei@suse.com)




