.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gcemetadata.1
.\"
.TH gcemetadata.1
.SH NAME
gcemetadata \- Query the Google Compute Engine metadata server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcemetadata [option]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gcemetadata
is used to query the Google Compute Engine metadata server. The available
data is documented at 
https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/storing-retrieving-metadata. The
command line options the tool accepts are for the most part dynamically and
therefore will change as more endpoints are added. The static command line
options are documented in this man page while the dynamic options are not
documented here. The tool will display all information available if no
command line options other than
.I --output
or
.I --xml
are specified. If any specific option is given the
.I --query
option must be given. If a specific query does not produce any value or
the query results in an error the data for the requested option will be
set to
.I unavailable.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a --api"
Specify the version of the metadata server API to use.
.IP "--help"
Print all available command line options to standard out.
.IP "--listapis"
List the available api versions.
.IP "--output"
Write the requested information to the given file.
.IP "--query"
Specify whether to query the project or the instance, possible values are
.I project
or
.I instance.
If any option, other than
.I --output
or
.I --xml
is specified the
.I --query
option is required.
.IP "--version"
Print he version of the tool.
.IP "--xml"
Specify that the tool should produce XML snippets. Using this option produces
information that is wrapped in tags that match the API endpoint option. For
example when querying the name of an instance with the
.I --xml
flag set the resulting output would be
.I <name>my_instance_name</name>
.SH EXAMPLES
gcemetadata --query project --project-id

Will print the name of the project the instance is running in.
.P
gcemetadata --query instance --netid 0 --external-ip

Will print the external IPv4 address of the instance.
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Schweikert (rjschwei@suse.com)
