.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pint.1
.\"
.TH pint.1
.SH NAME
pint \- Public-cloud INformation Tracker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pint amazon|google|microsoft images|servers [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pint
A client for the SUSE Public Cloud Information service at
.I https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/
The SUSE Public Cloud Information service provides information about
the SUSE maintained and operated update infrastructure as well as the SUSE
published guest images in Public Cloud provider frameworks.
.P
The information service provides a REST API using the general format as
follows:
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/
.IP <framework>
.IP [<region>]/
.IP <data-selector>/
.IP <data-target>.<format>
.P
For example:
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/amazon/servers.json
Provides information about all servers part of the SUSE update infrastructure
in Amazon Web Services EC2 in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/google/images/active.json
Provides information about all the active images in Google Compute images
in JSON format.
.IP https://susepubliccloudinfo.suse.com/v1/microsoft/West%20US/images/active.xml
Provides information about all active images in Microsoft Azure in the 'West US'
region.
.P
The
.I pint
command line client provides a convenience tool to access the information
provided by the information service and provides additional filtering
capabilities.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "<framework>"
One of the supported cloud frameworks,
.IR amazon ,
.IR google
or
.IR microsoft .
The
.I <framework>
argument specifies for which cloud provider the information should be retrieved.
.IP "<data-selector>"
One of the supported information types,
.I images
or
.IR servers .
The
.I <data-selector>
argument specifies the type of the information of interest. With the
.I images
argument information about the SUSE published images in the given framework
is retrieved. When the
.I servers
argument is provided information about the SUSE operated servers in the
SUSE maintained update infrastructure is retrieved.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--active"
The
.I active
option is only valid when used with the
.I images
argument. It provides information about the latest published images.
The latest published images are the only images considered
.I active
while all images released prior to the current images are considered
deprecated even if some of the previously released images may still be
available for launch.
.IP "--deleted"
The
.I deleted
option is only valid when used with the
.I images
argument. It provides information about deleted images. Deleted images
are images that were previously published but have been superceded by newer
images and have surpassed the deprecation period of 6 months.
.IP "--deprecated"
The
.I deprecated
option is only valid when used with the
.I images
argument. It provides information about images that can still be launched but
are considered deprecated. The SUSE deprecation period is 6 months.
.IP "--filter"
Filter the information based on the given value(s). If the information is
to be filtered on more than one entry type provide a comma separated
list. The output is a subset of results that match all the filters. The filter
option specifies one or more of the valid data entries for the chosen
.I <data-selector>
and is a valid option for the
.I images
and
.I servers
arguments.
Name filters (
.BR name ,
.B replacementname
) can be partial string matches (~), partial string exclusions (!), or regular
expression matches (%).
Date filters (
.BR deletedon ,
.BR deprecatedon ,
.BR publishedon
) can be less than, equal or greater than a specified date, in the format
.IR yyyymmdd .
Valid filter values for
.I images
are:

.BR deletedon> ,
.BR deletedon= ,
.BR deletedon< ,

.BR deprecatedon> ,
.BR deprecatedon= ,
.BR deprecatedon< ,

.BR id= ,

.BR name~ ,
.BR name! ,
.BR name% ,

.BR publishedon> ,
.BR publishedon= ,
.BR publishedon< ,

.BR replacementid= ,

.BR replacementname~ ,
.BR replacementname! ,
.BR replacementname% .

.B Note
that not all filters will be populated for all images in all frameworks.

Valid filter values for
.I servers
are:

.BR ip= ,

.BR name~ .
.BR name! .
.BR name% .

.B Note
that the name for all update servers (SMT servers) is the same in each
cloud framework. For example
.I smt-azure.susecloud.net
in the Microsoft Azure Public Cloud framework. The names are not resolvable via
DNS lookup. The name for all region servers are the same,
.I regionserver
across all cloud frameworks.
.RS
.P
Example:
.IP --filter="publishedon>20150101,name~11-sp3"
Filters images to a subset with a name containing "11-sp3" and published after
Jan 1, 2015.
.RE
.IP "-h --help"
Print a help message.
.IP "--json"
Set the output format to JSON format. The option is mutually exclusive with
the
.I --xml
option. XML is the default output format if neither option is provided.
.IP "--region"
Specify the region for which the information is supposed to be retrieved.
If no information is specified information for all regions in the given
framework is retrieved.
.IP "--regionserver"
The
.I regionserver
option is only valid when used with the
.I servers
argument. It provides information about the regionservers in the given
framework. Region servers are systems operated and maintained by SUSE
that associate your instance in the given region with the region local
SMT (update) servers.
.IP "--smt"
The
.I smt
option is only valid when used with the
.I servers
argument. It provides information about the SMT (update) servers operated
and maintained by SUSE.
.IP "-v --version"
Print the current version of the program
.SH EXAMPLE
.B pint google servers --smt --json

Will provide information about all SMT servers running in Google Compute
Engine in JSON format.

.B pint amazon images --region us-west-2 --active --xml

Will provide information about the active images in Amazon Web Services EC2
in the us-west-2 region (Oregon).

.B pint microsoft images --active --filter="name~priority"

Will provide information about the active 'priority' images in Microsoft Azure.

.SH AUTHORS
Robert Schweikert (rjschwei@suse.com), James Mason (jmason@suse.com)
